Привет, всеми!
Привет!
Привет русский эпосодцевец-найдц.
Это мой сайкн 2026.
Я – Олия.
И, кстати, мы будем learn some really fun Russian words.
Ready?
Поехали!
Это значит, let's go!
Our special word to D is cosmos.
That's cosmos.
Let's say it's slowly.
Cosmos.
Cosmos.
It sounds just like the English word cosmos, which helps us remember it easily.
We can use it like this.
Мы изучаем cosmos.
Мы изучаем cosmos.
That means we study space.
Repeat after me.
Cosmos.
Now let's add more space words.
How do Russians say star?
It's звезда.
That's звезда.
звезда.
It shines bright like a star in a night sky.
Repeat after me.
Звезда.
Звезда.
Вы can say, look at this star.
Посмотри на эту звезду.
Посмотри на эту звезду.
Look at this star.
The moon in Russian is Lona.
That's Lona.
Primaya NA.
Lona.
It connects lunar.
Anything to do with the moon.
Repeat after me.
Lona.
Lona.
Домон из рантудей.
Лу на круглая сегодня.
Лу на круглая, сегодня.
Домон из рантудей.
До сана с солнце.
Дад сел, наце.
Сел, наце.
Сел старой заворцулор, like power from the sun.
Репита в торми.
Сел, наце.
Сел, наце.
До саншаниц братьли, солнце светит ярко.
Солнце светит ярко.
До саншаниц братьли.
To get into space, we need a rocket, that's a rocket, a rocket, a rocket, it's almost exactly like the English rocket, repeat after me, a rocket, a rocket flies high, a rocket flies high, a space traveler is called cosmonaut, that's
cosmonaut, cosmonaut, it combines cosmo, from cosmos, that's like a sailor of the stars, repeat after me, cosmonaut, cosmonaut, cosmonaut, cosmonaut, cosmonaut is in space, cosmonaut in cosmos, cosmonaut is in space, our planet is planet, that's planet theta, planet theta,
И цикзакляда сэйм, а сды-инглиж, планет, репить авторми, планетейта, планетейта.
Эрс и зауропланет. Земля наша планета. Земля наша планета. Эрс и зауропланет, вылевонерст.
Мы живем на земле. Мы живем на земле. Волевонерст. Осотарить из спутник. Тец спутник, спутник.
Идминс компанент, артравл баде. Репить авторми, спутник. Сотарить флиоса рандейерст.
Спутник летает вокруг Земли. Спутник летает вокруг Земли. Сотарить флиоса рандейерст.
Now for a grammar bite using this word. In Russian when we talk about being in a place like space, the word often changes its ending.
This shows the location. It's like the word at the special ending to show where it's.
In English we just add in or on or around. For example, в космосе means in space. На лоне means on the moon.
В округ Земли means around the earth. This way you can tell where things are in space.
Россия has a long and exciting history with space. In 1961 Yuri Gagarin became the first person to travel
into space as a cosmonaut. Russian cosmonauts still work on the International Space Station today,
exploring the stars alongside people from many countries. Let's have some practice time.
For the kids, let's play space explorer. Druda-san, moon stars and planets on a big piece of paper.
As you draw each one, say the Russian word out loud. Солнце for sun. Luna for moon.
Звезда for star. And planet for planet. Then make up a fun story about flying in a rocket to visit the mall.
For the adults, try this real life practice.
Imagine planet space adventure. Say out loud. Я хочу полететь в космос на ракете к Луне.
I want to fly to space on a rocket to the moon. Repeat it three times. Then change it to a different planet. Like Mars.
Now hear something really cool about one of our own. Want to know a secret about sputnik?
Dara-Shen-Word sputnik actually gave English to word sputnik. Daya-Rda-Shen.
This word started meaning companion or fellow traveler someone who travels with you.
It became famous in 1957 when the first artificial satellite was launched and named sputnik.
So the whole world borrowed the word for satellites. But in Dara-Shen sputnik can also just mean a friend or travel body, not on your space satellite.
Next time you see a satellite or your sputnik, remember your daughter or your companion.
It's your secret short cut to remember that satellites are like earth traveling companions in space.
Молодец. That means well done. Remember every expert start as a beginner.
Practice saying today's words out loud, even just once. And you'll be amazed how fast you learn.
See you next time. Пока.
That's Russian for Bye.
This podcast is curated by Patrick, but generated using a voice synthesis of my voice using 11 laps.
The primary reason to do this is I unfortunately don't have the time to be consistent
with generating all the content and wanted to focus on creating consistent and regular episodes
for all the themes that I enjoy. And I hope others do as well.